Design notes for Program Object Groups cleanser

David Jones, Open Knowledge Foundation & Ravenbrook Limited

INTRODUCTION

This document records some design notes for the effort to clean the
Program Object Group (POG) and Program Object (PO) data that has
been made available from the HM Treasury via an FOI request.

Open Knowledge Foundation wish to translate this data into machine
readable format so that it can be used by Where Does My Money Go, and
make it available to anyone else who wishes to use it.  We are intending
to use a largely mechanical approach (that is, a computer program).

The readership of this document is anyone wishing to understand the
program.

This document is not confidential.


SOURCE

The main source is the result of an FOI request.  This was delivered in
paper form, and Lisa Evans has scanned and OCR'ed.  The results of the
OCR are here: http://www.archive.org/details/PogAndPo_138

See also trace ticket 360 (and to a lesser extent, 312):
http://knowledgeforge.net/okfn/tasks/ticket/360

The image files from the scan are not generally available, but a few
images to illustrate the general nature of the original paper documents are
referenced from the trac ticket.


DATA DESCRIPTION

Each POG is generally divided into a small number (dozen or so) of POs.
POGs are aggregated but I'm not sure what what this level of aggregation
is called (see the top of the first sheet: "P01 PO Department for
Children, 5chools and Families"

Each POG and PO has an identifier that typically looks like this:

POG: P01 S100101
PO: P0110001

Hmm.  Or have I got this the wrong way round, is PO the grouping of
POGs?

POG codes are available in machine readable form in a spreadsheet
reference from trac 360:
http://spreadsheets.google.com/ccc?key=0AhkFVPcNaYlxdHRMTXo5VWdsRUp1OThlNFc2cnlUM0E&hl=en

This can be used as a check on the parsed output: The POG codes should
match.  Discrepencices investigated.


SCANNING TACTICS

Generally POG codes are "Pxx Sxxxxxx".  Scanning artefacts may mutate
the S (into a 5), reduce the space.

POG versus PO.  Ignoring the space, a POG code is 10 characters, a PO
code is 8.  So it should be possible to use this to easily tell the
differences between those two levels of the hierarchy
